Chapter III
Objectives
As a participant in this project, you will have the opportunity to contribute to the cre-
ation of a digital asset on the blockchain. This project is designed to challenge you in
several areas, including your ability to master multiple programming languages and your
familiarity with public blockchain technology.
While a strong background in cryptography is not required for this project, you should
be prepared to learn and adapt as you work towards creating your own digital asset. This
project will require you to think critically and creatively, as well as to push yourself out
of your comfort zone as you navigate the complexities of blockchain technology.
Ultimately, your participation in this project will not only help you develop valuable
skills and knowledge, but it will also allow you to be part of something truly innovative
and exciting. Are you ready to take on the challenge?
Let’s get started!
4
Chapter IV
Mandatory part
In order to create a token, there are several technical requirements that must be met.
You are free to choose the name of your token. Your only constraint
is to have 42 in it. It is of course forbidden to use insulting
terms under penalty of punishment.
You must therefore create a README.md file at the root of your repository explaining
the choices you had to make and the reasons why you made these choices.
The language used is of course free, but you must respect the
standards of the block chain you are going to use (for example ERC20
for ETH or BEP-20 for BSC).
First and foremost, you will need to choose a blockchain platform that supports the
creation of tokens. There are many different options to choose from, each with its own
unique features and capabilities.
Once you have selected a platform, you will need to become proficient in the program-
ming language used by that platform in order to develop your token. Different platforms
use different programming languages, so you will need to ensure that you have the neces-
sary skills to work with the language of your chosen platform such as IDE, Truffle, Remix
or Hardhat.
Make sure you understand what you are doing. You will never be asked
to use real money to do this project. There are test chains to avoid
this problem.
5
Tokenizer Build your own token
You must submit the code used to create your token in a code folder located at the
root of your repository. You should be careful to comment out your code and to use
readable and explicit variable/function names.
During your evaluation there will be a code review.
You must be very careful about how you demonstrate the operation of your token.
You must be able to perform minimalist actions to demonstrate its operation. You need
to think about all aspects of security such as ownership or privileges.
You should also put all the things you need for the deployment part of your token in
a second folder with the name you want.
After deploying your token on a public blockchain. You will define its ticker and
publish it on a blockchain explorer (ex: blockscan or bscscan). Please mention the smart
contract address and the network used, in your Git repository.
Finally, you should have a folder containing the documentation for this project. This
folder is called documentation and should be at the root of your repository. It should
be possible to understand how it works and what is needed to use your token.
You will need to have a clear understanding of how your token will be used and what
it will represent. This may require the development of a whitepaper or other documen-
tation outlining the features and functionality of your token.
You must take the time to make a clear and explicit documentation.
This will be reviewed during your evaluation.
Consider also creating a demo video to showcase your token and its features to po-
tential users and investors.
If you want to make a video demo you don’t have to push the video on
your repository but a simple link will do!
6
Tokenizer Build your own token
Creating a demo video is not required. You will not get a better
grade by creating this video.
Below is an example of the expected directory structure:
$> ls -al
total XX
drwxrwxr-x 3 wil wil 4096 avril 42 20:42 .
drwxrwxrwt 17 wil wil 4096 avril 42 20:42 ..
-rw-rw-r-- 1 wil wil XXXX avril 42 20:42 README.md
drwxrwxr-x 3 wil wil 4096 avril 42 20:42 code
drwxrwxr-x 3 wil wil 4096 avril 42 20:42 deployment
drwxrwxr-x 3 wil wil 4096 avril 42 20:42 documentation
7
Chapter V
Bonus part
To ensure the security of your token and prevent fraudulent activity, you may want to
consider implementing a multisignature system, also known as a multisig.
This feature requires multiple parties to sign off on a transaction before it can be ex-
ecuted, providing an extra layer of protection for high-value assets or sensitive financial
transactions.
Setting up a multisig system is easy using your preferred programming language by creat-
ing a smart contract that mandates multiple signatures for every transaction. Determine
the number of signatures required and who is authorized to sign to enhance security and
gain the trust of your token’s users.
You must adapt this bonus to the mandatory part of this project.